let's bring in Far kadan she's a
Canadian Palestinian who has many family
members and friends in Gaza she joins us
live now from Ottawa in Canada uh far so
I understand you were born in Gaza you
spent much of your childhood there now
you have many friends and family members
living under this constant Israel
bombing what's it like for you living so
far away in Canada watching all of this
horror unfold on television you're
seeing the violence the blood shed you
must be feeling a deep sense of
helplessness um hi Darren thank you for
having me um I honestly oftentimes don't
find the words to really articulate what
it's felt like um for me and for so many
people who align themselves with uh
what's happening in Palestine uh the
dehumanization that we've been
witnessing from all you know corners
from from our government our elected
officials down to um the media groups
here in Canada and really across the
world has been uh just just horrifying
in to witness uh it's been fueling and
justifying the horrific Slaughter and
violent displacement of a people that
have been besieged in what's being
dubbed a death camp within the uh
confines and borders of the Gaza Strip
um day in and day out we have been you
know struggling to you know find the
words for what we're seeing uh trying to
keep in touch with our loved ones from
so far away not knowing if we're going
to wake up and hear from them or if
we're going to hear wake up and hear you
know horrifying news it's um it's really
quite shameful what we're witnessing
from so far away and far I understand
you have family members in Gaza who are
diabetic uh they require regular
checkouts but of course most hospitals
in Gaza are not working due to the
bombing they've been damaged or lack of
water fuel electricity uh and medical
supplies how are they coping on the
ground what are you hearing from
them they're they're in the same boat as
everyone in Gaza right now there is no
access to any medical facilities any
support any medication oftentimes
they're unable to really reach any
facilities where they can get the care
that they require um I'm sure you're
witnessing the same statistics that are
coming out from there and seeing the
same footage and images of the you know
tens of thousands of Palestinians that
have been uh injured in the last uh you
know 35 Plus days um everyone is in the
same boat everyone is uh rationing food
everyone is trying to to reconcile
whether they're going to be awake the
next day if they're going to be able to
survive the following week it's been um
incredibly difficult and it we can see
and we can sense we can feel the
helplessness that's been seeping into
their voices and every time that we try
to get in touch with them and witnessing
it from so far away has just been
absolutely devastating far let me ask
you uh about the Palestinian diaspora in
Canada what's the mood uh among your
community there about Israel's war on
Gaza and also more importantly Canada's
position on the
war um I I I mean I can speak for many
Canadians when I say that we are all
very ashamed and very disappointed in
our elected officials week after week
we've seen hundreds of thousands of
Canadians taking to the streets
protesting the inaction and the willful
neglect of our elected officials have
been regurgitating the same tired lines
and Sound Bites in defense of Israel as
it violates international law after
international law with continued
impunity we have signed petitions sent
letters to our members of parliament we
have you know continuously ensure that
we're sharing our outrage with what
we're witnessing on the ground in Gaza
and for whatever reason we continue to
be dismissed our um you know the mere
language that's being used to dehumanize
Palestinian and media rhetoric has also
been adding fuel to what a lot of the
people in Palestine are being subjected
to the justification of of Israel's uh
actions farak kadan many thanks for your
time thanks very much for speaking to us
thank
you thank you for having me